
Social cognition (SC) is the fundamental human ability of perceiving, interpreting and responding to social information. It has been linked with an increased BOLD activation in Default Mode Network (DMN),  few words on DMN. Personality traits guide how people navigate social situations and have been shown to influence social cognitive ability. However, how personality shapes activation of brain areas, specifically areas related to DMN , is still understudied. Specifically, we hypothesized that individuals with higher Agreeableness scores, when performing a Theory of Mind (TOM) task, would show higher relative activations in Temporoparietal Junction (TPJ), Medial Prefrontal Cortex (mPFC) and Posterior Cingulate Cortex (PCC). A subset of 100 participants from the Human Connectome Project was selected. FMRI data was preprocessed and parcellated using a Glasser Parcellation and brain activations were modelled using a Generalized Linear Model (GLM) to look for                                                                                          interactions between brain activation and Agreeableness scores while they performed a social cognition task in an fMRI scanner. Our results suggest that individual scores in Agreeableness contribute meaningfully to differences in  brain activation patterns. A limitation of this study was that we had a small participant pool which was limited to healthy subjects. It would be interesting to extend these results to clinical populations such as Autism, Schizophrenia, etc.
